[CHIMES]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is it possible to wake up
within a dream and use that
awareness to heal
repressed traumas,
increase athletic performance,
and even communicate with
deceased loved ones?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This ability for the
dreamer to be aware
that he or she is dreaming
is called lucid dreaming.
In this state of
awareness, the dreamer
can learn and receive
guidance from the dream
narrative, environment, and
even the dream characters.
The term lucid
dreaming was coined
by a Dutch psychiatrist named
Frederik van Eeden in 1913.
However, early references
to this phenomenon
can be found in
ancient Greek writings,
as well as in ancient Hindu
and Buddhist practices.
In 1975, parapsychologist
Keith Hearne
proved that people can be
conscious in their dreams
by having his test subjects
give coded eye signals
while they were dreaming, thus
proving that they were lucid.
>> When people were
in the dream state,
they were able to communicate by
moving their eyes right, left,
right, left--
you know, going back and forth.
>> This was conscious signaling
from the lucid dream state
world to the lab techs?
>> Yes.
And that was what demonstrated
that lucid dreaming was
a reality.
>> Before jumping into
how to lucid dream,
are there any actual benefits
to learning this practice?
Well, studies show that
lucid dreaming can literally
rewire your brain.
During normal dreaming,
the part of your brain
called the visual
cortex is activated
and your prefrontal
cortex, which
is associated with your sense
of self, is deactivated.
But during a lucid dream,
your prefrontal cortex
suddenly gets activated.
>> Once the prefrontal
cortex is activated,
neuroplasticity
becomes activated too.
And this is where it
gets really interesting.
Neuroplasticity, of
course, the phenomena
of the brain to
rewire itself in favor
of a repeated action or habit.
What you do in the lucid dream,
how you spend the lucid dream,
actually rewires your brain
in favor of that activity.
This means that you can
learn in your lucid dreams.
>> One of the more
fascinating studies coming out
of Heidelberg University in
Germany showed that 9% of all
athletes who used the lucid
dream state to practice motor
skills displayed a positive
impact on physical performance.
The study confirmed that
practicing movements
in lucid dreams is
possible and could possibly
even improve physical
performance in waking life.
>> They were strengthening
the neural pathways,
which meant in the waking
state, when they did squats,
they could do more of them and
this led to increased muscle
mass.
But so what?
We can get a nice bum and tum if
we work out in the lucid dream.
Imagine if we practice
our meditation
in a lucid dream, if we
practice being the person
that we know we could
be, if we could just
remove that block of fear that
stops us being that person.
That's how we can really retrain
our brains for lucid dreaming.
>> Lucid dreaming can also
help us access the depths
of our subconscious in
order to heal trauma,
release stuck emotions, and even
to physically heal the body.
>> Dreaming is
medicine, you know,
what the body knows
what's going on inside.
>> Yes.
>> One of the ways it tries to
speak to us is through dreams.
So you can read dreams by
looking at the landscapes
and conflicts inside the dream
as scenes from inside the body.
>> Being conscious in your
dreams also means that you can
actively try to solve current
conflicts in your life.
>> A dream character could
literally walk in and say,
dude, you've got to get
your finances in order.
We're struggling here.
You need to sort this
out in real life.
Yeah, it's amazing what you can
get from the dream if you ask.
>> Lucid dreaming can also be
a remarkably powerful method
of preparing yourself for
important situations like a job
interview or closing a big deal.
Like a computer
simulation, we all
have the ability to practice
anything while lucid dreaming,
preparing ourselves
for experiences that
can be applied in waking life.
>> You know, if you go into the
lucid dream and call out I am
lovable, I attract
love into my life,
that's not just like
me saying it now.
That's like an echo
chamber, you know?
That's like saying
it 1,000 times.
Once you do it in the
lucid dream state,
it's a very, very powerful place
for amplification of intent.
>> And lastly, lucid dreams
may allow you to interact with
your higher self,
deceased relatives,
or enlightened beings who
have guidance for you.
>> It puts us in touch with
wiser sources than the waking
mind.
It puts us in touch with the
high self for greater self.
It puts us in touch
with the ancestors
and our authentic
spiritual teachers.
>> Studies show people
spend an average of 26 years
of their life sleeping.
So wouldn't it be great
to be able to access
some of that time in order
to work on your life?
Here are some steps from experts
to get you started on your path
to lucid dreaming.
First, track your
dreams every night
for several weeks
using a dream journal.
Write down anything
you can remember,
including colors, sounds,
visuals, or even just
feelings you had.
After a few weeks,
review your journal
and look for dream signs,
which would be anything
out of the ordinary
that could signal
to you that it was a dream
as opposed to real life.
>> Is there any, you know,
weird moments going on?
Is there, like, a pink elephant
walking across the street?
That might be a sign that
you're either at the circus
or that you're dreaming.
>> Then, during
your waking life,
stop to ask yourself every
so often, am I dreaming?
Try doing this about
20 times per day
so that you get into
the habit of asking.
>> And then all this
leads up to a moment where
you're in the dream, and your
mind that has become accustomed
to asking that question asks
the question, am I dreaming?
And in the dream, you
just flew to this party--
I'm in a dream.
I mean that's the moment
where you switched from not
being lucid to becoming lucid.
>> And finally, have the
intention of having a lucid
dream.
Tell yourself over
and over in your mind
as you are falling
asleep that you will
be conscious in your dreams.
>> So if we engage the hypnotic
suggestion to become lucid
in our dreams, we engage a very
powerful intention that may
well help us get lucid tonight.
>> So after practicing
lucid dreaming in your life
for a while, what are the
overall effects that you may
experience?
>> If we are in sync, we realize
that we get the dreams we need
at exactly the right time.
>> Yes.
>> There is an innate
enlightened intelligence within
us which shines through in the
dreams and guides us but only
if we are willing to listen
and to take our fingers out
of our ears.
>> Absolutely.
>> So if being conscious in
your dreams is shown to help you
manifest your desires,
resolve conflicts,
and even rewire your brain, then
perhaps we could start looking
to lucid dreaming as a guidance
system that we can access
and download information
from every single night.
[MUSIC PLAYING]